Q1. What is Box Model in CSS ? 

Ans:- The CSS box model is a container that contains multiple properties 
including borders, margin, padding, and the content itself.

Q2. What are the Different Types of Selectors in CSS & what are the advantages of them?

Ans:- There is multiple selectors in CSS . but there is main selector i am mentioning below.

1. Psedu selector. there is two type of psudo selectors.
  -> Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
  -> Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
2.Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)

3.Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class).

-> Advantages of CSS Selectors.
-Simple syntax since they include a single element in their structure.
-Performance is the same or faster compared to XPath.
-Easier to learn than XPath, easier to use.
-You have a high chance of finding your elements.
-It's compatible with most browsers to date.


Q3. What is VW/VH ?

Ans:- 1. VH:-VH stands for “viewport height”, which is the viewable screen's height.
      2. VW stands for “viewport width”, which is the viewable screen's width.

Q4. Q.4 Whats difference between Inline, Inline Block and block ?

-> Inline:-An inline element does not start on a new line and it only takes up as much width as necessary.
->Inline Block:- A block-level element always starts on a new line and takes up the full width available. 

Q5.Q.5 How is Border-box different from Content Box?

Ans:- Content-box:- the content size remain same while border-box size grows as padding and border grow.
     ->Border-Box:-But when you are using box-sizing: border-box:- the size of border-box remains same 
       while size of content decreases as padding and border grow.

Q.6 What is z-index and How does it Function ?

Ans:- Z-Index is a CSS property that defines the order of overlapping HTML elements. 
      Elements with a higher index will be placed on top of elements witha lower index. 
      Note: Z index only works on positioned elements ( position:absolute , position:relative , or position:fixed ).

Q.7 What is Grid & Flex and difference between them?

Ans:- The basic difference between CSS grid layout and CSS flexbox layout is that flexbox was designed
       for layout in one dimension - either a row or a column.while Grid was designed for two-dimensional 
       layout - rows, and columns at the same time.

Q.8 Difference between absolute and relative and sticky and fixed position explain with example.

Ans:- there is quit different between absolute and relative and sticky , fixed position.

    1. Relative Position: Setting the top, right, bottom, and left properties of an element with position:
       relative; property will cause it to adjust from its normal position. The other objects or elements will not fill the gap.
    
    2.Absolute Position: An element with position: absolute; will cause it to adjust its position with respect to its parent.
                         If no parent is present, then it uses the document body as parent.
    
    3.fixed-position: property applied to an element will cause it to always stay in the same place even if the page is scrolled.
                        To position the element we use top, right, bottom, left properties.

    4.Sticky : A sticky element toggles between relative and fixed , depending on the scroll position. 
              It is positioned relative until a given offset position is met in the viewport - then it "sticks" in place.










      





